Recently moved there after the residency.
Uh, the beginning of the work
there, uh, to plant a church
called bridge bridge city church.
Um, and so I'm excited for
you to hear from him today.
Um, if you're wondering, why
is he sharing number one?
Because I love him and I'm
thankful to be able to hear from.
Number two, it was dealing with
some sickness early this week.
We had some mission teams in, I had no
clue if I was going to have a voice today.
And so in because of that,
we know how the Lord works.
Um, I was able to ask Jonathan
to come in and preach today.
So I'm so thankful for him to come.
So I'm going to have him come up here.
I'm going to pray for him.
And then he's going to
have a word to share with.
So let's take a moment
to pray, Lord Jesus.
We are so thankful Lord for you, Lord.
We're so thankful for this time
to hear from Jonathan in the word.
Uh, Lord, I pray that
you speak through him.
Use him mightily Lord, because
we know Lord, you have a word for
each one of us Lord, including me.
And I'm praying that my heart is open.
I'm praying that all of our hearts are
open Lord to your word and your truth,
and that we will lead out here change.
And so Lord, we praise
you and we thank you.
And we pray this in your.
Amen.
Well, no, it's good to be
with you in this place.
We're going to be in the book
of Ephesians chapter three.
And as you turn over there, I'm going
to start with a mouthful and tell you
about a guy named Luis Carlos  de Camara.
I'm not doing it in one time.
That was it.
That's all you get.
Um, he was a Portuguese aristocrat
who died suddenly at the age of 40.
Years old when he died, he was a bachelor.
He was unmarried.
He did not have any children, nor
did he have any living relatives.
So you think, okay, so he's died.
So anything that he owns, uh, that
remains all his possession, as things are
going to be absorbed by the government
where you would be wrong because you
see, he had, he had claimed some folks
to receive his inheritance, even though
he didn't have the normal, uh, family
members in place that maybe you would
pass those things along to 12 years.
To his death.
He picks out 70 people to
receive pieces of his estate if
he were, and when he would die.
Now, how did he come up
with these 70 people?
One day he brought a couple of
folks over to serve as witnesses.
He opened up a phone book and he
began to randomly select names.
Out of the phone book and is these 70
people that 12 years later when he passed
away received portions of his estate.
So he had a 12 room apartment that
was passed out among these folks.
He had a house in Northern Portugal
that someone received, he had a car
and he had 25,000 euros in the bank.
And this was his inheritance
that he had passed on to these
70 random folks along the way.
So when it inheritance can be a
good thing and it can be a good
thing for receiving inheritance.
But what I do with the inheritance
is just as important, if not more
important than the fact that I
received an inheritance in the first
place, it's great to receive things.
It's great to have resources, but what
I do with it, how I steward that along
the way matters just as much, if not
more than the fact that I received.
In the first place.
I'll give you an example.
Another mouthful here,
Huntington Hartford.
The second Huntington Hartford.
The second, if you can't tell this guy,
he grew up wealthy, his it's in his name.
He grew up with money.
So when his dad passed away, he
was 11 years old and his dad left
him $90 million as an inheritance.
So he grows up, he goes to school.
He is well educated, but he's not
so savvy when it comes to business.
So along the way, he had some
business opportunities and projects
and passion projects that he gave
his self to his time to, and his
money to, and they did not pan out.
For example, he had a real
estate deal in The Bahamas.
He sunk $30 million into that and got
nothing out of it lost all 30 million.
He wanted to start a modeling agency.
And so he started that and it ended up
falling through and it wasn't very good.
And so by 1992, he filed bankruptcy
and was forced to move out of.
Uh, swanky living quarters and into a kind
of a broken down apartment along the way.
And so an inheritance is great.
Resources are great.
What we do with them matter
just as much as the fact that I
received them in the first place.
And that is stewardship.
Stewardship is how I handle the
things that have been given.
In that replies to all aspects of
life, not just financial things, but
with my time and with my gifts and
with the family that have been born
into the job, all these different
things, these different aspects of life
are affected by how I steward them.
And so today in this place, we're
going to look at the good news of the
gospel through the lens of stewards.
How I handle the things
that have been given to me.
And so the title for today's
message is stewards of mystery.
Now we're going to talk about this a
little more here in a minute, but in this
passage, the apostle Paul is going to talk
about mystery as being the gospel, though.
You can't understand
all of it and editors.
Faith aspect to it and that the
blessings and the benefit of it
are beyond our comprehension.
And so there's just some mystery about
the gospel about why would God would
do it in the first place and how it
worked in all these different things.
And so interchangeably, we're going
to use the words gospel in mystery,
uh, throughout this time today.
And so let's read together six
verses in Ephesians chapter.
And then we'll talk about three
different truths that we see from
the passage of that will help
us be stewards of the mystery.
So let's read together Ephesians
chapter three, starting in verse one.
Paul says for this reason I Paul, a
prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf
of the Gentiles, assuming that you
have heard of the stewardship of
God's grace, that was given to me.
How the mystery was made
known to me by revelation.
As I have written briefly, when you
read this, you can perceive my insight
into the mystery of Christ, which was
not made known to the sons of men in
other generations, as it has now been
revealed to his holy apostles and the
prophets by the spirit verse six, this
mystery is the Gentiles are fellow.
Members of the same body and
partakers of the promise.
In Christ Jesus through the gospel.
So Paul he's writing a letter to
a group of believers in Ephesus.
They are Gentile believers,
which means they are not Jewish.
They're like a lot of us in this room.
We're not Jewish, we Gentile.
And so he's writing to a group of people
who for a long time, had not been allowed
to even have salvation, to have access,
to go into the temple along the way.
And so he's going to write, and he's
saying, look, you have been, now
you're the recipients of this mystery.
Grace of this salvation is now available
to you in a time when I wasn't before.
And so he's going to break it
down and he says, look, you've got
to be a steward of the mystery.
And so let's talk today, three
truths about stewarding the mystery
and stewarding the gospel, because
if it has been given to us, then
we have to do something with it.
So the first truth is the seed
in this passage is this that
we've got to have the right.
We've got to have the right reason.
If I'm going to appropriately and do
a good job of stewarding the gospel,
then I've got to have the right reason.
My motivation has got to be correct.
Paul start here.
He's talking about the
privilege of proclamation.
He starts in the very first verse.
He said, for this reason I.
I'm telling you this and he say, look,
it's a joy and a privilege to be able to
share this there, regardless of where I
find myself in life, I am going to have
joy in it because it Springs from God.
We see this in the very first word he
says, for this reason he's referring to
the work that Jesus did on the cross.
He's referring to what Jesus
did by offering salvation.
And so basically he's saying everything.
Stems from and flows out of
the fact of what Jesus did.
It's all because of him, it's a privilege
to do what I do because of Jesus and
because of what Jesus did, I can now
do what it is he has called me to do.
And so Paul's, apostleship his
office is his leadership, his
role that God had given him, it
determined all aspects of his life.
It influenced his relationships.
It influenced the, where he
w how he worked and where
he worked and what he did.
And throughout his letters, we
see his understanding of this.
There was a phrase that he would
use that would come up at over and
over again, that Konig showed, uh,
I am, who am I said, I am, I'm doing
what I've said I was going to do.
And so he would say, I Paul and there
were different times and that was
always kind of his way to help them
remember who it was, who was speaking
and what had happened along the way.
And then he speaking with the
authority is being called by God
to give this message to the people.
And so just give you a couple
of examples of what that
looked like in play right here.
So in second Corinthians chapter
10, verse one, he says, I, Paul
myself in treat you by the meekness
and the gentleness of Christ.
Over in Galatians five, verse two,
he says, look, I Paul, say to you
that if you accept circumcision,
Christ will be no advantage to you.
A third example, Colossians 1 23.
He says, if indeed, you continue
in faith, stable and steadfast, not
shifting from the hope of the gospel
that you heard, which has been proclaimed
in all creation under heaven and
of which I, Paul became a minister.
And he says it in our
verse one right here.
He said for this reason I, Paul.
All the time.
He was always reminding them of who he
was not for his glory, because he believed
everything he was doing was being sent out
by God that God had given him this role.
God had given him this message.
And so he's all the time
pointing back saying it's.
Paul, you know, the guy that
God's given this message to.
And so that's the authority
that I'm speaking in for him.
He wasn't saying it's in my authority
by saying I, Paul he's pointing
back to Jesus in Jesus' authority.
And so Paul viewed his life through
the lens of apostleship, which
was an extension of salvation.
You see, he had an encounter with Jesus on
the Damascus road that changed his life.
It changed his life spiritually.
It changed his life physically.
It changed his life geographically.
And for the rest of his life,
he changed what he was about.
He was walking one path and then
Jesus got ahold of his life and he
put him on a completely new path.
And we'll talk a little
more, more about that.
But from that point forward, it
was all about the gospel and it
was all about the mystery here.
And then it being a steward
of that along the way.
And so everything that he did.
Float out of salvation.
Jesus filled up every crevice of his
life to the point where it a little bit
later in chapter three in verse 13, he's
going to be able to say so I ask you not
to lose heart over what I am suffering
for you, which is for your glory.
So what's he suffering when
he's writing this letter?
He is in.
He is currently at the, at the time
that he's pinning this letter to these
folks in emphasis, he is in prison.
He is in chains.
Why?
Because he's preaching this
message of the gospel because he's
stewarding the message of the gospel.
And there's folks that don't like the
idea that Gentiles are, can now have
salvation there's folks that are saying,
no, that's not the way we've been told.
That's not what we've understood
it to be for all of these years.
You're introducing something
new and we don't like that.
We're going to have you arrested.
And so he is currently in chains as he's
raised in prison, writing this letter,
and he's able to say it is for God's glory
and I am a prisoner in Christ and it's.
He able to find a way to be content
in the middle of this because Paul
understood that to be in Christ was more
important than his outward circumstances.
Right.
And he says, and he says,
I am a prisoner for Christ.
So he's suffering.
And in verse 13, he's saying it's
okay, because it's for your glory
is for your benefit because you're
going to get to know about the
glorious message of salvation.
And if it requires me to be in
prison for that to happen, then it's.
It's okay.
And so the same thing is true for
us to be in Christ, wherever it is,
he has us is better than whatever
the outward circumstances that are
going on in my life at that time.
And having the right reason allows us
to accept our situation so that we can
focus on what it is God wants to do
with us in the middle of that situation.
It allows us to be.
It helps us focus on not on what distracts
us from what God desires to do in us,
but to focus on what he wants us through.
In so many times, it's easy to get
distracted about things that are going on,
especially when circumstances aren't ideal
when things aren't the way we would wish
for them to be, or the way that we would
hope for them to be in life is hard and
it stinks and is painful along the way.
And we're in situations
that we don't want.
It's easy to be distracted.
Do you know anybody that
has a hard time on Monday?
You find people that have
just a hard time on Mondays.
I used to work with a
lady, the bless her heart.
She just struggled on Mondays.
She began struggling about
Monday on Saturday night, like
it was coming around the bin.
And so everything was about Monday.
And if it was negative, it
was cause it was a Monday.
And if something really good happened,
I was like, well, I can't believe
that actually happened on a Monday.
And it was all the time and it
influenced her entire attitude.
And so like, she always got.
On Monday.
And she was like, well, it's a Monday.
What are you expecting?
It's like, it's just like any other
day, like, come on, let's go to work.
And it was just always so negative.
And I, of course that happened.
It's a Monday.
And you know what scripture would
say, Psalm 1 18 24 says, this is
the day that the Lord has made.
I should rejoice and be glad in it.
God made Mondays, Mondays are great days,
but for her it had become a distraction.
Nothing good was going to happen
on a Monday, nothing beneficial,
nothing kingdom minded,
kingdom oriented could happen.
God doesn't work on Mondays.
He takes Monday off.
That's why everything's bad's happening.
Right?
So when we have the right reason,
we stay focused in on what
it is that God desires to do.
Even on a Monday, even in the
midst of hard circumstances.
Because having the right reason, it
allows me to operate in my current
situation to the best of my ability,
which opens the door for God to
work to the best of his ability.
I'm going to say that again, having the
right reason allows me to operate in
my current circumstance to the best of
my ability, which opens the door for
God to work to the best of his ability.
A good example of this is in
the old Testament, the book of
Daniel with three guys named
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
They had been taken captive and
been taken to another country.
But while they're there, they're
experiencing the favor of God to the
point where the king really enjoys
them and has them around in his court.
And he kind of dotes on them
and he likes them along the way.
So the locals don't like that.
And so they're out to get him.
And so they.
They set a trap to get them either
thrown in prison or to be killed because
they don't like the fact that these
foreigners have come in and their own
king likes them more than they like them.
He likes them.
And so the trap was this.
They said they knew how
faithful they were to follow.
God.
And so they said, we're going to make
it a rule and a law that everyone's
got to bow down and worship the king.
And so the king says, that sounds good.
Let's do that.
So they put this law into place
and these three guys refused to do
that to the best of their ability.
They were being obedient to
what God had given him to do
regardless of the circumstance.
So there are.
And they're going to be thrown into a fire
and they're going to be in this big, giant
furnace and they're going to be killed.
And that's going to be the
consequences for their, uh, their
actions of being obedient to God.
And so to the best of their ability,
they go to the furnace, doing exactly
what it is God had called them to do.
They find themselves at the brink of
death, but because they had done exactly
what God had called them to do it cleared
out space for God to do what only, he.
So it says that they get
thrown into the furnace.
And then we pick up the story in
Daniel chapter three, verse 24
king Nebuchadnezzar was astonished.
He rose up in haste.
He declared to his counselors.
Did we not cast three
men bound into the fire?
And they answered and said
to the king, it's true.
Oh, king.
He answered and said, but I see four men
Unbound walking in the midst of the fire.
And they are not hurt in the appearance
of the fourth is like the son of the guy.
When we steward what God has given us
with the right reason, then we don't
be distracted by the circumstances.
We don't become discontented.
We are all in and what he's
given us to do, because what
he has given you to do today.
Is an extension of his gift of salvation.
If he is, if he has saved you
and you've received the gift of
salvation, then he has a role for you.
And he has a desire and
a plan for your life.
And so when we walk that path, even
when circumstances are hard, it sets the
stage for him to do what only he can do.
It says that the fire in this
furnace that they cranked it
up even hotter than normal.
To the point, it was like six times
higher to the point that when the
guards who came in through these
three guys into the fire, the guards
were consumed and died by the fire.
That's how hot it was.
So not only did they not die, says
when they pulled them out, their
clothes were not singed and they
didn't even smell like smoke.
God didn't work that only he could do.
And he was able to do that because these
three guys did exactly what they could do.
They could be obedient even to
the point of dying in a furnace.
And so when they walked that
path, God showed up and did
a work that only he can do.
And so Paul, in this letter, he's
talking about the example of stewardship
and living a life that's based
upon what Christ has done for us.
And we should see it as
a challenge to examine.
Our level of stewardship.
So why did I get up this morning?
What's my agenda for today.
What's my motivation for today.
Why am I moving around
and doing stuff today?
What am I trying to get out of today?
What are, what is it?
That's motivating my actions
because Paul was saying it's
all tied to what God has done.
Everything that I do every moment
of every day is attached to
the fact that Jesus saved me.
That's my motivation.
That's how I'm going to steward the
gospel is that it's all connected.
And so for us in this
place, how are we steward?
'cause he's talked earlier in
this letter about some of the
purpose of each day, each day.
My purpose should be to
build the temple of God.
At the end of chapter two, he's
referencing the temple as an
illustration of who we are in Christ.
I know the letters.
You said we're a body than
all believers are connected.
And as the body of Christ, but in
this letter, he references and uses
the idea of a building of a temple.
And he said, Jesus is the cornerstone.
He's the first stone in from that, every
believer that comes into the family of.
Is a stone that builds upon the
cornerstone and God is constructing
this temple made up of the
lives of people who choose him.
And so we, every single day are
trying to build the temple of God.
We're trying to, as a corporate
body is being built into a giant
simple, we're trying to, as
individual lives of Christians
are being developed into temples.
So I'm trying to invest
in the mission of Jesus.
I want to.
On mission.
I'm going to realize that God has
a role for me to play in his, his
goal is to save those who are lost
and he has a role for me in that.
And so I'm at all times seeking to
bring new people in I'm all times
trying to share the gospel, serve
the loss, express the love of Jesus
and be obedient to the instructions
that God gives me on a daily basis.
So every single.
My life should be about that investing
in the mission of Jesus, but it should
also include investing in my temple.
Paul would also say at the end of chapter
two, that you individually are a temple
because you house, God, God, his spirit
lives within you when you receive Jesus.
And so you are a temple, a
living, breathing habitat for God.
And so not only do we want to seek
to build up the larger temple that
is made up of individual followers
of Jesus, but we want to develop.
Our life as a residing place, as a
resting place, as a place where God lives.
And so how do I do that?
I pray, I spend time in prayer
talking to the father, allowing him
to shape and guide and direct me.
And when I pray, I don't
just talk the whole time.
Sometimes I listen and allow him to speak.
I heard a pastor this week,
somebody asked him and said, in
your 30 years of ministry, what
would you have done differently?
And he said in my 30 years of ministry,
what I would have done differently
is I would have prayed more.
I would have planned.
I would have prayed more.
I would've planned less.
You want to build up the temple of your
life into something that God can use.
We need to pray more.
I need to read my Bible
and not just read it.
I need to meditate on scripture.
There's going to be some
verses along the way.
The holy spirit is going to point out.
We need to do something with this verse,
and you're just gonna take some time to
think about it and what that looks like.
And so we want to meditate on that and
allow him to, to shape us and to guide us.
And then we want to be obedient
to what he's given us through.
And we'll be connected to a local church
just like this one that follows scripture,
that honors God and all that they do
and be connected in serve in that way.
And so if I'm going to be a steward
of the gospel, it's going to start
with me having the right reason.
I'm going to have the right motivation.
Secondly, I'm going to
give away what I receive.
I'm going to give away what I
receive in verses two and three.
We see that he said, assuming that
you've heard of the stewardship of
God's grace, that was given to me for
you, how the mystery was made, known
to me, my revelation as I have written.
So he's dwelling on his call
as an apostle to the Gentiles.
So God gave him a direct
mission for these folks.
The folks that had been outside of the
nation of Israel, the ones that weren't
allowed, had access to God in the temple.
And so from his view, he'd been entrusted
with a special office, a special calling.
He gets to be the first that brings kind
of this revolutionary idea to these.
And it stemmed back just like we
talked about just a minute, get
it stemmed back from his calling.
So let's read together in the book of
acts chapter nine, because I want you
to see kind of the descriptor of what's
going on because it helps us understand
how passionate and how motivated he is
as he's being a steward of this gospel.
So in acts chapter nine, verse one,
it says this, but Paul was still
breathing, threats and murder.
Against the disciples of the Lord.
He went to the high priest and he
asked him for letters to the synagogues
at Damascus, so that if he found
any belonging to the way meaning
followers of Jesus or women, he
might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
Now, as he went on his way, he
approached Damascus and suddenly
a light from heaven flashed around
him and falling to the ground.
He heard a voice saying to him,
Saul, Saul, why are you persecuted?
And he said, who are you Lord?
And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are
persecuting, but rise and enter the city.
And you will be told what you are.
Now verse seven, the men who were
traveling with him stood speechless,
hearing the voice, but seeing
no one saw rose from the ground.
And although his eyes were
opened, he saw nothing.
So they laid him by the hand
and brought him into Damascus.
And for three days he was without
sight and neither ate nor drank.
So he has this encounter with
God that changed his life.
And so right after that, God sends a
guy and it gives instruction to a guy
named Anna Naya says, Hey, this thing is.
To Saul, his life has been changed.
You need to go and lay hands on him and
pray over him so that he can regain.
Now, and an ISP knows the reputation
of Saul, that he is a murderer.
Here's the guy, a persecutor of
Christians, of people just like him.
And so he balks it.
That idea is like, I don't think so.
That's not the guy I'm going to go visit.
I don't care if you say he's blind
or what I'm not going, but then
God responds and gives kind of
the punchline to the whole deal.
God says, go for, he is a chosen
instrument of mine to carry my name
before the Gentiles and the Kings in the.
Of Israel.
God had saved Paul.
He changed his life for one
specific reason so that Gentiles
could know about the gospel.
That was his calling and it
shaped everything that he had.
And so he was told this by God.
And so then he spent the rest
of his life telling other
people what he had been told.
He was giving away that,
which he had received.
And so he says in here, don't assume,
or he says, assuming you have heard,
so that's what he's referencing.
Is that assuming you've
heard what happened?
God.
To me and gave us a message.
And it's a game changer, assuming
you've heard all of those things.
That's why I'm now saying what it is.
I'm saying.
So a couple of just side observations
for us about this idea of assuming
my father, one of the favorite
things he likes to say is assumption
is the lowest form of knowledge.
If you set it, what he said at 975,000.
In my lifetime and almost all
of them are directed towards me.
And so assumption is the
lowest form of knowledge.
And so I'm not getting onto
Paul for saying, assuming you've
heard, I'm just saying for us,
let's not assume some stuff.
Let's not assume that everybody
understands exactly what the gospel.
So let's go ahead and say it.
Let's go ahead and share it.
Let's not assume let's not assume
everybody knows your testimony.
Let's not assume that everybody
knows exactly what God's
doing in your life right now.
Those are things that need to be on the
forefront of your mouth and on your lips
so that people can hear, because we don't
want to assume that everybody understands
that the gospels boil down to the fact
that Jesus loves you so very much.
That even though you were separated from
him because of sin in your life, that
he bridged the gap, then you made it
possible for you to have relationship
with him because he loves you that much.
And so to bridge the gap, he sent Jesus to
die on a cross that even though he didn't
deserve to die it then nothing wrong.
He lived sinless life.
He paid the debt for sin for you.
He paid the price that you and I
deserved to pay, but then three days
later, God raised him back to life
and in the process defeated death.
So now you don't have to die
spiritually and be separated from him.
And when you physically die,
you will no longer be separated.
You will be with him
in heaven and in glory.
And so we were able to have relationship
with him now and experience him now.
And then we get to experience him
even more in complete fulfillment
when we see him face to face.
And that is the gospel in Romans.
Tim would say the only.
The only thing you got to do to
be saved is to believe you got to
believe that he was, God, you got
to believe that he was perfect.
You had to believe that he was, he died.
And then three days later,
he raised back to life.
And if you believe that and you
confess it, you're saved, that's it.
But let's not assume that
everybody knows that.
So we need to have that conversation.
We need to share.
If it's that good news, then I
need to share it on a regular.
There is power in your testimony.
There is power in you sharing the stories
of what God has done in your life.
What God is teaching you and doing in
your life right now, and what you're
believing him for down the road.
There are people that
need to hear your story.
It's going to empower them and
bolster them and give them courage
to take the next step in their.
There is power in your testimony.
You need to hear your testimony.
Sometimes one of the things I've found
is then this last year is that I give
testimony that what God is doing, it
empowers me and it happened to me, but I'm
being reminded of it in the moment of how.
Faithful and how God did a thing that
only he can do, which gives me fuel
and motivation to be courageous, to
step into the next thing that he's
asking me to do that only he can do.
And so not only does it encourage
and empower other people, but it
can do the same for you, even though
it has already happened to you.
So let's not assume that everybody always
knows exactly what all is going on.
I do this with my wife all the time.
We'll be at dinner and I'll be
telling a story and she'll look at me.
She goes, You didn't tell me that.
And it's because I assume I've told her
already, I've tell all these other people
and she ends up being the last one.
So don't assume that you are, that
everybody knows your story matters.
Your story is important.
Your story is intended to be shared.
And when we share, we are giving
away what we have received.
And we are stewarding the gospel.
The flow of the gospel is not
intended to stop with you.
When I was graduating from seminary
back in 2011, I attended an
extension center for new Orleans
Baptist, theological seminary.
I was in Atlanta, but it
was attached to that school.
And so when I graduated, we
went back to the main campus
in new Orleans for graduation.
And while we were there, the entire
talk of the news and the radio and
everything going on was the river.
The river was at flood stage.
And so they're having
this constant dialogue.
Are they going to open up the
drains and keep it from overflowing?
Or are they not going to take
a risk and flood the city?
And so we're less, we're still less
than 10 years from when Katrina
had happened and all the flooding.
And so this was the constant
conversation on all the media outlets.
So on Saturday of that weekend, they
decided they're going to open the drains.
And so they go, they take a crew out,
a video camera out and they're filming
the actual drains in the side of these
levees as they begin to open them.
And so we're watching this thing.
We've been listening for three days,
and so now we're going to watch.
And so they began to open these
giant greats and they start
opening them up in immediate.
When they started to open them,
there was a little bit of water.
You could kind of see a
splashing kind of thing.
And then before long they're
wide open and there is water
just pouring out of these drains.
I mean, going everywhere, more
water than you can keep up with.
And, but within minutes, The entire ground
is gone around the areas where these
dreams are, and that's why they hesitate.
They don't want to open the drains is
because it's going to mess up the crops
and th the land where this is happening.
And so they're opening these drains up,
you know, north of the city trying to
save the city, but it's going to mess up.
The immediately the land, where
that lane is going to get flooded.
And that's what happened.
I mean, within minutes, there's
water gushing everywhere.
And before long, you
can't even see the ground.
You just see the water.
And that's a good picture.
I think of what God desires
to do with the gospel with us.
W we, if our, if our drain, if our gate is
shut and it stops with me, that's not the.
The goal was that it
would come into my life.
It would change my life
in flow out of my life.
And everywhere that I go,
that it would just get on me.
It would flood the area where I go.
So when I'm at work, the is flooded
with the gospel and when I'm at home, my
family is flooded with the love of Jesus.
And when I coach my son's baseball
team, those eight year old would
know the love of Jesus because it is
flowing out because I am set to open.
I am.
I am open.
And when I do that, I am
stewarding the gospel.
I am giving away what it
is he has given to me.
And so if we're going to be
stewards of the gospel, we've
got to have the right reason.
We've got to give away
what we've been given.
And then thirdly, and finally
God desires to speak through you.
That's a part of his mission.
He's decided the best way to reach the
world with the gospel is through you.
You could have done it any
way you wanted to do it.
And he's chosen to use folks like you and
I followers of him, regular old people,
even ones that haven't been to seminary.
Can you believe it?
The message is revolutionary.
And I think it's hard for us to
grasp how revolutionary it was
in this moment for Gentiles to be
told you can have access to this.
I think we've probably all experienced
on some levels, some more than others
of what it feels like to be told.
Nope, you're not welcome here.
You're not enough.
Whatever that thing is, it's not for you.
This is to the highest degree Gentiles.
There was a sign in the temple that said.
Foreigners can come no further.
This is as far you're not allowed to
actually you can get to the courtyard.
You're not actually allowed to
go in because you see God resides
within there and you're not welcome.
So to the degree it was, you're not
a part of this, this isn't for you.
Now Paul's coming and saying, guess what?
The game has changed.
Jesus said, actually, it's for everybody.
And so he gets to be the first one
that brings this revolutionary message
and there was some parts about it.
And this is where he's
getting into the mystery.
He refers to it as the mystery.
And he's going to reveal the mystery of
the gospel for these Gentile believers.
And it was this he's saying that
they get to be fellow heirs with him.
They are now a part of the family of God.
When you choose Jesus, you
are a part of God's family.
He said they were going to be fellow
members of the same body in chapter.
In verse 10, it said that when you
receive Jesus, you are a new creation
created for works that are going to
give evidence that God is real and
that he loves the world and that
he's come to die and save the world.
And so that's why we were created
as a new creation, but then in chat
a little later in chapter two, he's
going to refer to a new race of people.
He came to unify people,
not to divide people.
And so he said, I'm coming to unify.
Jew and Gentile as a new race of people.
I'm not bringing the Gentiles
up to the level of the Jews.
Who've already got it all figured out.
No, I'm elevating them both up into
something completely new, the same,
the same race, the same type of people,
the same new creation along the way.
And so when the Gentiles, when
they received Jesus, when someone
received Jesus, they are a fellow
member of the body of Christ.
And then he also says you are a partaker
in the promise promises of Christ.
Now to partake is to join in is to eat
or drink, to, to, to consume whatever
it is that's going along at that time.
And so look, you get to be a part of it.
There's all these promises in these
covenants that God had made all
the way back in the old Testament
in now you are a part of that.
It is for you.
It includes you.
You get to participate
and partake in that.
Over in second Thessalonians chapter
two, verse 14, he would say it this way.
Paul said to this, he called you
through the gospel so that you
may obtain glory of our Lord.
Jesus Christ.
There are good things found
in the body of Christ.
There are good things that come
when we give our life to Jesus.
And he's saying it's a revolutionary
message because he's saying
it's now available to everybody.
There's no one who's excluded.
It's available.
Everybody gets the opportunity.
To receive it.
And so the truth is for us in
this place, we are stewards of
this same revolutionary message.
We are given the opportunity to
share and to speak this same message.
It's our goal.
It's our role.
It's what we're supposed to do.
Now.
This isn't the way it works, but as soon.
That for someone to receive Jesus, they
had to interact with the gospel 26 times
in various ways, assuming that it took
26 interactions with the gospel, for
someone to give their life to Jesus.
And so to kind of give us a picture
of that, imagine that I strung a.
From like a clothesline
from this wall to this wall.
And along that wall, put 26 cards
up there, a lettered, a through Z to
represent there's 26 interactions.
And somebody has to have 26
interactions with the gospel before
they would become a Christian.
And then if I were to ask you, which
one of those is the most important
step most of the time intuitively we
would think the one where they become.
So the last one from Y to Z, but
the truth is that every single
one of those steps are important.
If it took 26 interactions with
the gospel, then all 26 matter.
Now, what does that mean for you?
Because sometimes when we share the
gospel and we share our faith and we
ask somebody, if they want to receive
Jesus, And I walk away from that
interaction feeling defeated and feeling
like maybe I don't ever want to do that
again, because that was rejection and
rejection hurts and rejection stinks.
And I don't want that again.
So I'm not even going to put
myself out there because if I do
it again, they may say no again.
Well guess what, if there are walking
along those 26 interactions, they've just
had another interaction with Jesus that
it's your job to have interactions with
people it's God's job to save people.
And when I get that out of whack, I
stopped doing the exact thing he's asking
me to do, because I'm trying to do what.
I want to see people saved.
And so the moment I share salvation
with them, share the gospel with them.
They don't receive it.
Then I don't, I don't do it
anymore because they rejected me.
And so being able to remember
that it's not my job.
I want to release you from
the weight of that today.
If nothing else happens, just be
reminded that only God can save people,
but he's choosing, he was chosen
and he chooses every single day to
communicate that message through you.
So to be stewards of the gospel,
we've got to recognize that he
wants to speak through me, that
your voice is important that your
voice, your life, it is noteworthy.
It's your life is such a big
deal that Jesus died for you.
You, because he wants to
do something through you.
He wants to have relationship
with you that makes your life no.
When somebody is willing to lay down their
life for you, that means you're valuable.
So be encouraged in this place today that
God loves you very much, be challenged
in this place that I realized that
God doesn't want it to stop with you.
If you're one of those that have received
Jesus, and you're a Christ follower,
it's not supposed to stop with you.
It's supposed to continue
supposed to flow through you.
And so our question today that
we're going to finish with is this,
what are you doing with the gospel?
Because we're all stewards of the gospel.
Even if I never choose salvation,
I am stewarding the gospel and
that's how I'm stewarding it.
I'm deciding I'm not going
to do anything with it.
I don't want it.
I'm going to say no.
So each and every person gets to
steward the gospel and it starts there.
If I received the gift of
salvation, then it's about what am
I doing to share it with others?
But we've all been given the
gift it's available to all of us.
He didn't randomly pick people
out of a phone book and say,
you get the chance at salvation.
Not at all.
He died for each and every
person who's ever lived.
So it's available.
I get to decide what
I'm going to do with it.
I get to decide how I'm
going to respond to it.
Paul understood that as a follower
of Jesus, it should affect each
and every aspect of his life.
And that's how he chose
to steward the gospel.
For the believers in this room,
you've been given the same
responsibility to pass that along.
And for those in the room that have
made them, never had that time yet where
they've given their, their life to Jesus,
they haven't received the gift yet.
That's your next step?
And that's what I've been praying for
all week long is that this would be the
moment today where you say, you know what?
This is the time when I received the gift.
A gift is great to be given a
gift to be given an inheritance.
But it matters more
about what to do with it.
Right.
I can bring you a gift.
It can be wrapped up and look great.
And if you never opened the
gift, it does you absolutely.
No.
Good.
And so I would encourage
you today in this place.
If you're a person that says,
you know what, I know a lot about
God, I know about salvation.
I know the whole thing I've been in
church my whole life, but I, I don't know
that I've ever actually opened the gift.
I would encourage you to do that today.
That's the best thing you could
do to steward the gospel of the
day would be to open the gift
and receive him in this place.
So friends, what are we
going to do with the gospel?
Let's pray.
God, you are a good God and we have spent
time praising you and singing about that.
And so I just want to reiterate that
in this place, we praise you because
you did what none of us could do.
And you paid a price that none of
us could pay and still have life.
And so father, I thank you that
you've done what is necessary
for us to be able to have Sal.
I'm grateful for the gospel.
I'm grateful for people all throughout
history who have communicated that
it hasn't just stayed with them.
They've passed it on today.
We looked at a letter from the
apostle Paul, where he did that.
He dedicated his life, but
there've been a lot of others.
I've got relatives who
didn't keep it to themselves.
They shared it with me along.
And so father, we just want to take
a moment right now and say, thank you
for working in the lives of people.
Thank you for doing a
work that only you can do.
Thank you for including us in the work
you didn't have to, but as Paul would
say, it's a privilege to be a part.
It's a privilege to have a role to play.
So father, I pray right now in this time,
the holy spirit would have the freedom
to speak to us in our heart and our
soul to point out what our next step.
Some of us need to be rebuked a little bit
because we're not stewarding the gospel
the way that you would want us to, and you
need to be able to point that out in our
life and we need to be able to receive.
Repentive that and move forward
and be better and do what it
is, what you're asking us to do.
Some of us in this place at eight
need to be reminded that we matter
and that our testimony matters.
No.
What we have to say matters, not because
of who we are, but because of who you
are residing within us and by your
authority, we have the opportunity
to share meaningful information.
So father, I pray that you would love on
those people in this place, that you would
encourage them and you would embolden
them and you would empower them to walk
out of this room in a whole new sense of
self and a whole new sense of courage of
realizing that they're not alone, that
you are with them striving, right beside
them seeking and desiring to lead the way.
And then there's others in the room.
Father have never received
you, and they've never
opened the gift of salvation.
They may have heard it for the
first time today, or maybe they've
heard it for the hundred 50th time.
They weren't quite ready.
They had more questions.
They had more things will father,
I believe today's the day that you
desire for them to come to know you.
And so if that is you
in this place happening.
To nail that down today, there is no
better stewarding of the gospel that
you can do then to know for sure that
you are saved, it all flows out of that.
You can't be a good steward
until you've received the gift
and received the blessing.
And so if that is.
During this time of invitation, you can
come up front and you can talk to me.
You can talk to pastor Ben.
We'd love to help, you know,
uh, the ins and outs and just
being able to pray with you.
But ultimately it's just about
you believing you don't have
to come up here to do that.
You don't have to sign a card to do that.
Romans ten nine says that
for those that believe.
And the con in their heart and confess
with their mouth that they shall be saved.
And so that's what it's about.
And I could not encourage
you more to do it today,
father, I pray right now in this
time of invitation, you'd have the
freedom to do what only you can do to
change lives of people individually,
but to change this community, to
change the city of Cincinnati and
ultimately the changed state of
Ohio, you're doing it through people.
You always have.
You always.
We want to be a part of that.
Thank you for allowing us to be a
part of your family and your name.
I pray.
Amen.